So far, we have implemented the data structures used in the project as well as a basic interface for defining bids, bidding, and retrivingt the meanings of the defined bids. The file Bidding.elm contains functions defining and allowing access to the main data structure, which is a tree of possible next bids where each bid contains a list of requirements, a value, and subtree containing the subsequent bids. The file GUI.elm contains the main function and defines the user interface.

To display the user interface, we created two modes that can be switched between. The bidding practice mode is for when the user has defined a system and wants to bid with the computer, and the edit system mode is for defining and updating the system. Currently we do not yet have the page save the user's system on reload, although that is something that we are look to add in the next two weeks. The user can switch between the two modes through buttons at the very top of the page. These access the same data structures but have a completely different implementation of the view function.

In the edit system mode, which allows the user to define and modfiy their system. So far the main work was to create a framework for navigating around to different seqenuences of bids, . A bar of buttons representing bids along the top displays the current location, and clicking on one allows the user to go to that inital sequence of the bidding. Once on a bid, the follow-up bids are displayed in the center of the screen. New bids can be added, removed, and reprioritized. Each bid has boxes defining the ranges of possible hands that could bid them. Clicking on a bid moves appends it to the bid sequence and allows the user to then define the follow ups bids to that. A search bar just below the top bar also the user to quickly go to a specific location in the tree without clicking through it. These functionalities show significant progress toward a usable user interface that we set the goal of creating in our proposal.

Most of the necessary functionality of the edit system mode is in place, but there are still several things neccessary for improving it. We still need to allow for multiple meanings, resize and align various boxes, improve readability , and provide better documentation.
Some of the things that still need to be done for this mode include allowing for multiple meanings for a bid, making the interface more intuitive and useable, resizing and aligning boxes, preventing the user from creating bids which are not allowed, and providing better documentation. Overall, I think these are all doable tasks by the completion time of the project. For this part of the project, progress seems roughly consistent with what was originally planned and does not need to be changed in scope. Some of the more advanced features I had envisioned such as ways for the user to define multiple bids at once using a pattern will most likely not have time to be implemented.